

FOA: 2.3.2 Noise words





FOA Home

 | UP: Intra-document parsing



Noise words

From the earliest days of IR (e.g. Luhn's seminal work [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#Luhn57">Luhn57] ) two related facts have been
obvious: first, that a relatively small number of words account for a
very significant fraction of all text's bulk. Words like IT,
AND and TO can be found in virtually every sentence.
Second, these  NOISE WORDS make very poor index terms. Users are
unlikely to ask for documents about TO and it is hard to
imagine a document about BE.} Due then to both their
frequency and their lack of indexing consequence, we will build in the
capability of ignoring noise words into our lexical analyzer.


As will be
discussed extensively in Chapter 3, noise words are often imagined to be
the most frequently occurring words in a corpus. One problem with
defining noise words in this way is that it requires a frequency
analysis of the corpus prior to lexical analysis. It is possible to use
frequency analyses from other corpora, assuming that the distribution of
noise words is relatively constant across corpora, but such an
extrapolation is not always warranted. Worse, the most frequent words
often include words that might make very good key words. Fox notes that
the words TIME, WAR, HOME, LIFE, WATER and
WORLD are among the 200 most frequent in general English
literature.[FoxC92]


 Instead, we will
define noise words extensionally, in terms of a finite list or
NEGATIVE DICTIONARY. The list we use, STOP.WRD, was derived by
Fox from an analysis of the Brown corpus[<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#Fox90">Fox90] .


The relationship between these
noise words and those words most critical to syntactic analysis of
natural language sentences is striking. note that the same tokens that
are thrown away as noise because they have no meaning are precisely
those FUNCTION WORDS most important to the syntactic
analysis of well-formed sentences. This is the first, but not the last,
suggestion of a fundamental complimentarity between FOA's concern with
semantics and computational linguistics' concern with syntax.




Top of Page

 | UP: Intra-document parsing

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



