

FOA: 6.1.3 Legal citation





FOA Home

 | UP: Citation: inter-document links



Legal citation

The use of citation in legal documents is interesting for a number of
reasons [REF1113] . First, within the
common law tradition adjudicating legal behavior is based on arguments
of stare decis: Stand by previous decision. The ability to
reference prior judicial opinions provides the core of many forms of
documents, including the judicial opinions themselves, briefs, even
legislation. It is no wonder, then, that legal prose has developed an
extensive system of conventions for representing how judicial opinions
relate to one another .


As with scientific papers, the fact of citation ‹
reference by one judge to the opinion of another ‹ is never in doubt.
But when referring to prior cases, the relevance of prior
decisions often depends on the judges interpretation of the
relation holding between the two opinions.


In fact, an entire
industry exists within legal publishing to do nothing but elaborate the
syntactic fact of reference to a prior ruling with an interpretation of
the purpose for which the citation is made. This process is performed
especially well by Shepherd/McGraw Hill. So critical are the arguments
captured by these citations that the process of checking a prior ruling
a lawyer wishes to reference, to be sure that it hasn't been overruled
or otherwise rendered obsolete, is known as SHEPHERDIZING a case.



Figure (FOAref) shows the entire range of Shepard citation
labels. These are broken into two categories, the first dealing with the
history of a case and the second with its treatment.


To make sense of
this distinction a brief digression into the purpose of legal citation
is necessary. Cases, as they proceed from lower to higher courts, have
basically a binary outcome: they are either won or lost. There is never
ambiguity as to whether a higher court agrees with or overrules the
opinion of a lower court. These unambiguous statements are what are
captured as the history of a case.


But in a common law tradition, a much
larger number of citations refer to cases and decisions in those cases
by other judges. The relationship between these cases and the one before
the author-judge is less clear. But as Figure ?? (figure) makes
explicit, the two cases (citing and cited) have at least two important
dimensions along which they may be similar or dissimilar. First, the set
of facts associated with one case may be very close to those in the
other, or they may be much different facts. Second, the rules of law
which are to be applied may be consistent between one judge and the
other, or they may be contrary. Figure(FOAref) shows these two
dimensions and orders Shepard's treatment labels roughly along
dimensions of this two dimensional similarity space.




Top of Page

 | UP: Citation: inter-document links

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



