

FOA: 3.3.1 Lexical consequences, internal/external perspectives





FOA Home

 | UP: A statistical basis for keyword meaning



Lexical consequences, internal/external perspectives

The plot in Figure (FOAref) is based on word-frequency
statistics like those shown in Table (FOAref) . Note that on
this log-log plot, frequency is a nearly linear inverse function of
rank.


One way to make the various lexical decisions considered in the
last chapter is to consider the effects of various decisions in terms of
statistics such as these. Table (FOAref) shows the statistics
for stemmed, non-noise word tokens (shown in {\tt \\tt}, eg
SYSTEM) we typically assume together with noise words
(shown in italics, eg the). As expected, the noise
words are very frequent. But it is interesting to contrast those very
frequent words defined a priori in the NEGATIVE
DICTIONARY from those that are especially frequent in this
particular corpus. In many ways these are excellent candidates for
EXTERNAL KEYWORDS : characteristizations of this corpus' content,
from the ``external'' perspective of general language use. That is,
these are exactly the words (cf. NEURAL NETWORK, BASE, LEARN,
WORLD, KNOWLEDGE) that could suggest to a browsing WWW user that
the AIT corpus might be worth visiting. Once ``inside'' the topical
domain of AI, however, these same words become as ineffective as other
noise-words as INTERNAL KEYWORDS , discriminating the contents of
one AI thesis dissertation from the next (cf. SYSTEM,
MODEL,PROCESS, DESIGN).


Also shown in (FOAref) are
statistics both with and without stemming. For example, the token
SYSTEM itself appeared only 8632 times; variations like
SYSTEMS, SYSTEMATIC, etc. must account for the
other 12856. This simple example also demonstrates how issues of phrase
recognition (cf. NEURAL NETWORK), and other, messy issues
(e.g., the presence of French noise words in some of the
dissertation abstracts but not in our English negative dictionary!) can
arise in even the simplest, ``cleanest'' corpora.




Top of Page

 | UP: A statistical basis for keyword meaning

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



