

FOA: 6.2.2 Hierarchic containment





FOA Home

 | UP: Hypertext, intra-document links



Hierarchic containment

One of the most common features of all document types is that as larger
and larger portions are aggregated, explicit hierarchic structure is
used to organize the text. For example, this textbook is broken into
chapters, which are broken into sections and subsections, etc. This is
basically a CONTAINMENT relationship, with shorter passages
aggregated to form larger ones, but with short textual RUBRICS
providing useful summaries of the themes of the smaller units. Typical
atomic units of text range from a few sentences [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#Salton93">Salton93] [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#Salton94">Salton94] but typically are paragraphs
[Hearst93] .


A provocative picture of
how the containment relation can be exploited is shown from Salton et
al's analysis of encyclopedia text in Figure (figure) . This
shows the encyclopedia text ordered sequentially around a ring. In the
top figure, individual pages of the encyclopedia are treated as separate
documents, while in the bottom figure larger sections are aggregated. In
both cases, links between documents are created when their similarity
(as measured according to their vector space representations; cf Section
&sect;3.4 ) exceeds a threshold. As Chapter 3
explored in detail, a vector space representation of document content is
very sensitive to length. Salton investigates the use of inclusion to
aggregate text into larger units (in the bottom of Figure
(FOAref) ) and various ``global'' vs. ``local'' weighting
schemes to manipulate the effects of length normalization. Note also how
co-reference to similar topical themes can be seen at different scales
within the containment hierarchy.


When considering constituent
PASSAGES of the same document, it becomes possible to ask how
much the TOPIC of the prose changes as it goes from one passage
to the next. Hearst analyzes how <A
HREF="http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/~hearst/tb-example.html">similarity
(using tf-idf weighting and cosine similarity) varies across
passages. [Hearst93] The result
is the wave of Figure (figure) . Also shown on this figure are
vertical bars where a human judge has determined that a topical shift
has occurred.


Having isolated individual passages as part of retrieval,
it becomes important to show the user this additional level of analysis
as part of their ``documents'' retrieval. Figure (figure) .
shows TOPICAL TILING , another visualization technique Hearst has
developed to highlight shifts in topical focus from one passage to the
next. By increasing the resolution of document analysis, users can see
just which passages match particular keywords or combinations of
keywords in their query.


Containment relations among documents may also
be useful in supporting queries of widely varying generality (cf.
Section &sect;4.3.4 ). If a user issues a
very broad query, it may mean they seek documents with an equally broad,
overview LEVEL OF TREATMENT . Then one reasonable hypothesis is
that broader queries should correspond to the retrieval of large
sections while narrower queries to smaller sections, but only if the
assumption that documents in general obey something like a uniform level
of treatment. Such an assumption would not be unreasonable for the
encyclopedia text considered by Salton et al., since we expect (and
encyclopedia editors attempt to ensure) that there is some document
about every topic.


Figure (figure) contrasts the
encyclopedia's top-down, coherent TOPICAL TILING with another
(hypothetical) document distribution, generated by bottom-up, organic
case law. People don't go to court unless they disagree, and so what
judges must write about are contentious legal issues defining the
borders of legal disputes. As courts work out a legal issue
(for example, the intellectual property status of software, or whether
genes can be patented) we can expect many opinions to cover very similar
topical ground.




Top of Page

 | UP: Hypertext, intra-document links

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



