

FOA: 2.5.2.5 Dependencies on document type





FOA Home

 | UP: Fine points



Dependencies on document type

The process of indexing has been idealized, as having a first stage
where we worry about what kind of document it is (e.g., whether it's a
thesis or an email message), and then assuming subsequent processing is
completely independent of document type. Like all software designs, this
idealization breaks down in the face of real data.


Consider email
messages. One common element of these documents is {quoted} text from
another email message. Often this is marked by a caret prefix, as shown
in Figure (FOAref) . The role of inter-document citations like
this is considered in depth in Section <A
HREF="foa-6-1.html">&sect;6.1 , but for the present a reasonable
design decision is that all text should be indexed only once. Especially
appropriate if we have both the original email message and the quoted
version of it, we might want to elide (ignore) quoted lines.


On Thu, 28
Aug 1997 23:10:03 GMT, Michael Query  wrote:


>My
question is, should I get another 2 Gb SCSI disk for putting the >OS (NT
4.0 WS), software, etc on, or should I get an IDE disk for this?


Having
played around with different configs for a while, I'd say go SCSI. I'd
do that even if I had to get a second SCSI controller.


(You'll ``hear'' a
lot of people arguing that IDE is good enough, but if you are after
overall improved performance SCSI is best.)


my 2Y. \caption{Quoted lines
in an Email message}


 Other software designs are possible, but the
easiest way to implement this is to check for quoted lines within the
{postdoc} routine - if the first character of a line is a caret mark,
don't do any of the subsequent processing. Don't check it against noise
words, don't stem, index, or install it in the term tree. Unfortunately
this creates precisely the kind of Email-specific processing that should
be avoided by well-engineered software.




Top of Page

 | UP: Fine points

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



