

FOA: 1.1 Finding Out About - a cognitive activity





FOA Home

 | UP: Overview



Finding Out About - a cognitive activity

We are all forced to make decisions regularly, sometimes at the spur of
the moment. But often we have enough warning that it becomes possible to
collect our thoughts and even do some research that makes our decision
as sound as it can be. This book is a closer look at the process of
FINDING OUT ABOUT (FOA), research activities that allow a
decision-maker to draw on others' knowledge. It is written from a
technical perspective, in terms of computational tools that speed the
FOA activity in the modern era of the distributed networks of knowledge
collectively known as the World Wide Web (WWW). It shows you how to
build many of the tools that are useful for searching collections of
text and other media. The primary argument advanced is that progress
requires that we appreciate the cognitive foundation we bring
to this task as academics, as language users, and even as adaptive
organisms.


As organisms, we have evolved a wide range of strategies for
seeking useful information about our environment. We use the term
``cognitive'' to highlight the use of internal representations
that help even the simplest organisms perceive and respond to their
world; as the organisms get less simple, their cognitive structures
increase in complexity. Whether done by simple or complex organisms,
however, the process of {\em finding out about} (FOA) is a very active
one - making initial guesses about good paths, using complex sets of
features to decide if we seem to be on the right path, and proceeding
forward.


As humans, we are especially expert at searching through one of
the most complex environments of all - {Language}. Its system of
linguistic features is not derived from the natural world, at least not
directly. It is a constructed, cultural system that has worked well
since (by definition!) prehistoric times. In part languages remain
useful because they are capable of change when necessary. New features
and new objects are noticed, and it becomes necessary for us to express
new things about them, form our reactions to them, and express
these reactions to one another.


Our first experience of language, as
children and as a species, was oral - we spoke and listened. As children
we learn { Sprachspiele}(word or language games) [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#REF640">REF640] - how to use language to get what
we want. A baby saying ``Juice!'' is using the exclamation as a
tool to make adults move; that's what a word \means. Such a
functional notion of language, in terms of the jobs it accomplishes,
will prove central to our conception of what keywords in documents and
queries mean as part of the FOA task.


Beyond the oral uses of
language, as a species we have also learned the advantages of {writing
down} important facts which we might otherwise forget. Writing down a
list of things to do that you might forget tomorrow extends our limited
memory. Some of these advantages accrue to even a single individual: We
use language personally, to organize our thoughts and to conceive
strategies.


Even more important, we use writing to say things to others.
Writing down important, memorable facts in a consistent, {conventional}
manner, so that others can understand what we mean and vice
versa, further amplifies the linguistic advantage. As a society, we
value reading and writing skills because they let us interpret shared
symbols and coordinate our actions. In advanced cultures scholarship,
entire curricula can be defined in terms of what Robert McHenry (editor
in chief of Encyclopedia Britannica) calls <A
HREF="http://www.howtoknow.com/htktitle.html">``Knowing How To Know''
.


It is easiest to think of the organism's or human's search as being for
a valuable object, sweet pieces of fruit in the jungle, or (in modern
times!) a grocer that sells it. But as language has played an
increasingly important role in our society, searching for valuable
written passages becomes an end unto itself. Especially as members of
the academic community, we are likely to go to libraries seeking others'
writings as part of our search. Here we find rows upon rows of books,
each full of facts the author thought important, and endorsed by a
librarian who has selected it. The authors are typically people far from
our own time and place, using language similar but not identical to our
own.


And the library contains books on many, many topics. We must Find
Out About a topic of special interest, looking only for those things
that are RELEVANT to our search. This basic skill is a
fundamental part of the academic's job: \item we look for references in
order to write a term paper; \item we read a textbook, looking for help
in answering an exercise; \item we comb the scientific journals to see
if a question has already been answered. We know that if we find the
right reference, the right paper, the right paragraph, ..., our job will
be made much easier. Language has become not only the means of our
search, but its object as well.


 Today we can also search the WORLD
WIDE WEB (WWW) for others' opinions of music, movies, or software.
Of course these examples are much less of an ``academic exercise'' -
Finding Out About these information commodities, and doing it
consistently and well, is a skill that the modern information society
values. But while the infra-structure forming the modern WWW is quite
recent, the promise offered by truly connecting all the world's
knowledge has been anticipated for some time, for example by H. G. Wells
[Wells38] .


Many of the FOA searching
techniques we will discuss in this text have been designed to operate on
vast collections of apparently ``dead'' linguistic objects: files full
of old email messages, CDROMs full of manuals or literature, Web servers
full of technical reports, etc. But at their core each of these
collections is evidence of real, vital attempts to communicate.
Typically an AUTHOR (explicitly or implicitly) anticipates the
interests of some imagined AUDIENCE and produces text that is a
balance between what the author wants to say and what they think the
audience wants to hear. A textual CORPUS will contain many such
documents, written by many different authors, in many styles and for
many different purposes. A person searching through such a corpus comes
with their own purposes, and may well use language in a different way
than any of the authors. But each of the individual linguistic
expressions -- the authors' attempts to write, the searchers' attempts
to express their questions and then read the authors' documents -- must
be appreciated for the WORD GAMES [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#REF640">REF640] that they are. FOA is centrally
concerned with \rikmeaning: the semantics of the words, sentences,
questions and documents involved. We cannot tell if a document is
about a topic unless we understand (at least something of) the
semantics of the document and the topic. This is the notion of
\about-ness most typical within the tradition of library science [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#Hutchins78">Hutchins78] .


This means that our
attempts to engineer good technical solutions must be informed by, and
can contribute to, a broader philosophy of language. For example, it
will turn out that FOA's concern with the semantics of entire documents
is well-complemented by techniques from computational linguistics which
have tended to focus on syntactic analysis of individual sentences. But
even more exciting is the fact that the recent availability of new types
of ELECTRONIC ARTIFACTS -- from email messages and WWW corpora to
the browsing behaviors of millions of users all trying to FOA -- brings
an {\em empirical} grounding for new theories of language that may well
be revolutionary.


At its core, the FOA process of browsing readers can be
imagined to involve three phases: \item Asking a question; \item
Constructing an answer; \item Assessing the answer.


 This conversational
loop is sketched in Figure (figure) .


*{Step1. Asking a
Question}


The first step is initiated by people who (anticipating our
interest in building a search engine) we'll call ``users,'' and their
questions. We don't know a lot about these people, but we do know
they are in a particular frame of mind, a special cognitive state - they
may be aware knowing what it is that you don't know. Any use of the term
``awareness'' in this context, therefore, should be interpreted
loosely.} of a specific gap in their knowledge (or they be only vaguely
puzzled), and they're motivated to fill it. They want to FOA ... some
topic.


Supposing for a moment that we were there to ask, the users may
not even be able to characterize the topic, i.e., their knowledge gap.
More precisely, they may not be able to fully define characteristics of
the ``answer'' they seek. A paradoxical feature of the FOA problem is
that if users knew their question, precisely, they might not even need
the search engine we are designing - forming a clearly posed question is
often the hardest part of answering it! In any case, we'll call this
somewhat befuddled but not uncommon cognitive state the users'
INFORMATION NEED .


While a bit confused about their particular
question, the users are not without resources. First, they can typically
take their ill-defined, {internal} cognitive state and turn it into an
{\em external} expression of their question, in some language. We'll
call their expression the QUERY , and the language from which it
is constructed the QUERY LANGUAGE .


*{Step2. Constructing an
Answer}


So much for the source of the question; whence the answer? If the
question is being asked of a person, we must worry about equally complex
characteristics of the answerer's cognitive state:


 \item Can
they translate the user's ill-formed question into a better one? \item
Do they know the answer themselves? \item Are they able to verbalize
this answer? \item Can they give the answer in terms that the user will
understand? \item Can they provide the necessary background knowledge
for the user to understand the answer itself?


 We will refer to the
question-answerer as the SEARCH ENGINE , a computer program that
algorithmically performs this task. Immediately each of the concerns
(just listed) regarding the {\em human} answerer's cognitive state
translate into extremely ambitious demands we might make of our {\em
computer} system.


Throughout most of this book, we will avoid such
ambitious issues and instead consider a very restricted form of the FOA
problem: We will assume that the search engine has available to it only
a set of pre-existing, ``canned'' passages of text, and that its
response is limited to identifying one or more of these passages and
presenting them to the users; see Figure (figure) . We will
call each of these passages a DOCUMENT , and the entire set of
documents the CORPUS . Especially when the corpus is very large
(e.g., assume it contains millions or even billions of documents),
selecting a very small set (say 10-20) of these as potentially good
answers to be RETRIEVED will prove sufficiently difficult (and
practically important) that we will focus on it for the first few
chapters of this book. In the final chapter consider how this basic
functionality can be extended towards tools for ``Searching for an
education'' (cf. Section &sect;8.3.4 ).


*{Step3.
Assessing the answer}


Imagine a special instance of the FOA problem: You
are the user, waiting in line to ask a question of a professor. You're
confused about a topic that is sure to be on the final exam. When you
finally get your chance to ask your question, we'll assume that the
professor does nothing but select the three or four preformed pearls of
wisdom he or she thinks comes closest to your need, delivers these
``documents,'' and sends you on your way. ``But wait!'', you want to
say. ``That isn't what I Or, ``Let me ask it another way.'' Or, ``That
helps, but I still have this problem.''


The third and equally important
phase of the FOA process is a ``closing of the loop'' between asker and
answerer, whereby the user(asker) provides an assessment of just how
RELEVANT they find the answer provided. If after your first
question and the professor's initial answer you are summarily ushered
out of the office, you have a perfect right to be angry because the FOA
process has been violated. FOA is a dialog between
question-asker and -answerer; it does not end with the search engine's
first delivery of an answer. This initial exchange is only the first
iteration of an ongoing conversation by which asker and answerer
mutually negotiate a satisfactory exchange. In the process, the asker
may {\em recognize} elements of the answer they seek and be able to
re-express their information need in terms of threads taken from
previous answers.


Since the question-answerer has been restricted to a
simple set of documents, the asker's RELEVANCE FEEDBACK must be
similarly constrained - for each of the documents retrieved by the
search engine, the asker reacts by saying whether they find the document
relevant or not. Returning to the student/professor scenario, we can
imagine this as the student saying ``Thanks, that helps.'' after those
pearls that do, and remaining silent, or saying ``Huh?'' or ``What does
that have to do with anything?!'' or ``No, that's not what I meant!''
otherwise. More precisely, relevance feedback gives the asker the
opportunity to provide more information with their reaction to each
retrieved document - whether it is relevant (\Pos), irrelevant (\Neg),
or neutral (\DCare). This is shown as a Venn diagram-like labeling of
the set of retrieved documents in (figure) . We'll worry about
just how to solicit and make use of relevance feedback judgements in
Chapter 3.

Subsections

	 1.1.1 Working within the IR Tradition




Top of Page

 | UP: Overview

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



