

FOA: 6.1.4.1 Citations and arguments





FOA Home

 | UP: Discussion



Citations and arguments

Expository documents are arguments: Attempts to convince an audience
that some set of proposition are true. Depending on the type of
document, and the type of audience, the argument may be more or less
formally structured.


Perhaps the most structured kinds of documents are
mathematical papers. Mathematical arguments typically depend on, indeed
are defined by, theorem proving which connects new propositions to
previously established results. Even in the case of mathematical papers
however, it is interesting to observe the crucial role natural language
text continues to play in providing a context for formal theoretical
results. Readers can be persuaded that assumptions are reasonable, that
mathematical definitions capture intuitive relationships, etc. Citations
in a mathematical paper typically point to papers containing theorems
that were used as part of the current proof.


In a scientific paper, the
form of the argument often has to do with the discipline. There is often
data to present, methodology to describe, etc. Many of the citations are
typically gathered in a section relating the current piece of work to
prior literature. This prior literature may be referenced for at least
two, very different purposes. Most typically the prior work is used much
as theorems in mathematical papers, to establish a result from which the
current work proceeds. The current author points to the work of a prior
author as providing validation for a proposition they both believe to be
true. Another potential reason for citation is quite the opposite. In
this case, the current author is interested in debating a position put
forward by the cited work.


This polarity, reflecting whether the cited
work and its conclusions are positively or negatively correlated with
those in the citing work will be termed the POLARITY of the
citation. Here legal documents provide a good example for what might be
possible in scientific writing. Every law student learns proper legal
syntax for codifying references as they learn to write LEGAL
BRIEFS , the structured memos provided to judges and often
incorporated into the ultimate opinion [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#BlueBook">BlueBook] . One feature of their
writing is the special syntax used to refer to statuatory law (e.g.,
{\tt 17 U.S.C 101} refers to a section of the U.S. Code) or case law
(e.g., {\tt West Pub. Co. v. Mead Data Cent., Inc., 616 F.Supp 1571}) in
a conventional fashion. A more interesting aspect of legal brief style
is the explicit syntactic marking of the relation of the cited case to
the argument being made in the brief: reference to a supporting legal
precident is marked by {\tt cf.}, while potentially antagonistic
argument is marked with {\tt but cf.}!


Note the importance of the
syntactic localization of both the source and destination of a citation
pointer to the two document's semantic purposes. Localization helps to
anchor the author's purpose in using the citation to the document's
larger argument. Most papers make many points and attempt to establish a
number of propositions. The ability to point to particular conclusions
within the cited paper is therefore important. The citing paper's
argument structure is simultaneously being extended, and so refenence to
prior argument at a particular location in the current argument is can
be more persuasive than if all cites aren't localized.


 within the
opinion, as reported in a particular court reporter publication, makes
it far easier to find the relevant legal issue. Goldberg summarizes the
legal issues:


 Given today's technology, access to court opinions should
be easier than ever. The law of the states and the federal law is in the
public domain and is frequently reported electronically by the
courts.... Small legal publishers are attempting to take advantage of
this access and package less expensive computer assisted legal research
tools than Westlaw and Lexis services; for example, many want to package
state law on CD-ROM. Given the raw material is available these
publishers should have a green light. The problem is that West
Publishing, who publishes many of the State and Regional reporters and
has control over the Federal Reporters, claims that their citation form,
specifically the pagination of the reporters, is protected by copyright.
As a result, those who wish to become legal publishers must either
receive a license from the official reporters to use their pagination
and citation form or petition the court for recognition of their
citation form. Publishers are free to request copies of opinions from
the courts or, for those that are available, download them from
electronic bulletin boards and then print them in whatever form they
choose. These materials are useless, however, to many potential
customers as there is no recognized way to cite to them. In turn, the
fee these publishers can fetch is a fraction of that of those using
West's pagination. In 1991, the Supreme Court held in Feist Publication
v. Rural Telephone Service that in order to deserve a copyright a work
must have a ``creative spark" since a copyright is to reward
originality. This decision has left some to doubt whether West is
deserving of copyright protection for its pagination. In the 1980s, West
sued Mead Data's Lexis over the use of its pagination but the two
settled out of court. Under the terms of the license agreement Lexis
received, Lexis can not relitigate so the issue is not yet settled.
Efforts to get legislation on the issue passed have failed allegedly in
part due to West's strong legislative ties. [<A
HREF="bibrefs.html#Goldberg95">Goldberg95]


 The American Bar
Association has recently issued a <A
HREF="http://www.uscourts.gov/aba/abarep.htm">Special Report on Citation
Issues including page numbering. Like most of electronic publishing,
the underlying issues remains in flux. }


One reason citation has been
less-exploited in FOA applications than it might is due to the expense
of obtaining this data. In the context of the WWW, however, it turns out
that the indices built by Web crawlers can be quite easily extended to
capture cited pages information which can also be easily
inverted to maintain citing pages as well (cf. Section <A
HREF="foa-8-1.html">&sect;8.1 ).




Top of Page

 | UP: Discussion

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



