

FOA: 1.3.1 Query sessions





FOA Home

 | UP: Query syntax



Query sessions

As we consider the specific features of each query, it is important to
remember the role these short expressions play in the larger FOA
process. Queries are generated as an attempt by users to express their
information need. As with any linguistic expression, conveying a thought
you have can be difficult and this is likely to be especially true of
the muddled cognitive state of our FOA searcher. Users who are familiar
with the special syntactic features of a query language may be able to
express their need more easily, but others for whom this unnatural
syntax is new or difficult will have additional difficulties.


As with
many of the idealizing assumptions we are at least temporarily making,
it is often simpler to think about only one iteration of the three-step
query/retrieve/assess FOA process at a time. In most realistic
situations we can expect that single queries will not occur in isolation
but as part of an iteration of the FOA process. An initial query begins
the dialog; the search engine's response provides clues to the user
about directions to pursue next; these are expressed as another query.
An abstract view of this sequence is presented in Figure
(figure) . Note especially the concatenation of a series of
basic FOA three-step iterations. Data is produced by user, then by
search engine and then by user - constructs a very natural alternation
of user/search engine exchanges. Users' assessments can also function as
their next query statement. This can be achieved simply if we have some
method for automatically constructing a query from relevance feedback.
For example, if users click on documents they like, the search engine
can, by itself, form a new query that focuses on those keywords that are
especially associated with these documents.


While there are many such
techniques for using relevance feedback from a single query/retrieval,
there are many more things that we can learn from the entire query
session. The full query session provides more complete evidence about
the users' information need than we can gain from any one query. In
fact, as will be discussed extensively in Chapter <A
HREF="foa-7.html">&sect;7 , there exist algorithmic means by which
the search engine itself might ``learn'' from such evidence. Learning
methods might even be expected to make TRANSITIVE leaps, from the
users' initial expressions of their information needs, to those final
documents that satisfied them. (Of course, this transitive leap is only
warranted if we are certain that they ended the session satisfied, and
aren't just quitting in frustration!) For all these reasons, we must
make efforts to identify a query session's boundaries, i.e., when one
focused search session ends and the next session, involving the same
user but searching on an entirely different topic, begins.




Top of Page

 | UP: Query syntax

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



