

FOA: 1.4.1 Structured aspects of documents





FOA Home

 | UP: Documents



Structured aspects of documents

In addition to their free text, many documents will also carry
META-DATA that gives some facts about the document. We may have
PUBLICATION INFORMATION , e.g., that this document appeared in
this journal on this day on this page. We are likely to know the
author(s) of the document. Queries will often refer to aspects of both
free-text and meta-data:


 I'm interested in documents about Fools'
Gold that have been published in children's magazines in the last five
years.


 The first portion of this query depends on the same relation that
is at the core of our FOA process. But the last two criteria, concerning
publication type and date, seem to be just the sort of query against
structured attributes that database systems perform very successfully.
In most real-life applications a hybrid of database and IR technologies
will be necessary. (We distinguish between these techniques in Section
&sect;1.6 .)


The most interesting examples
concern characteristics that do not clearly fall into either IR or
database categories. For example, can you define precisely what you
mean by a `children's magazine', in terms of unambiguous
attributes on which a database would depend? Consider another query:



What sort of work has K. E. Smith done on metabolic proteins affecting
neurogenesis?


 Finding an exact match for the string in the
\term{AUTHORS} attribute is straightforward. But the conventions in much
of medical and biological publication (as well as in some areas of
physics) sometimes lead to dozens of authors on papers, from the
director of the institute through all of the laboratory assistants.
While K. E. Smith might well fulfill the syntactic requirements of
authorship on a particular paper, users searching for ``the work of''
this person might well have a more narrowly-defined {\em semantic}
relationship in mind.




Top of Page

 | UP: Documents

 | ,FOA Home 





FOA &copy; R. K. Belew - 00-09-21



